html =hyper text mark up language.
CSS = cascading style sheets.

html is the architecture structure, the building blocks, the pillars and columns.
css is the wall paper, carpet and drapes.

Both are backwards compatible.  The spaceJam website still works.
https://spacejam.com/archive/spacejam/movie/jam.htm
you can check it out in the dev tools here.

Css works from the top down, thats what cascading means!

the goal of these two languages is too render content on a webpage
JavaScripts job is to play with that content.

browsers inherent jobs are to make sense of these languages.

a static webpage stay the same.  like the space jam site.
static webpages tend to have a lot of repeated code.


a dynamic webpage is a page that moves. 
much of the content is generated.

when you start a new webpage draw it out first.

in html an element is a section of the page, and the tag is name,
and container for it.  Some elements are self closing, but most will
need a second tag to end them.

elements can be nested within one another.  the span tag is nested in 
the body tag!  there is another span tag nested in the p tag, and that p 
tag is nested in a div tag.  that div is in the body.

browsers will try to render everything you give it.  Even if it is 
invalid.  

tables, lists, and dropdown menus can be complicated to use.  browsers
will attempt to render them, but often times will not be able to do it
predictably.

attributes are ways to alter elements.  Usually those are written with
an equals sign within a tag.  for example, id or class.

there are container elements in html.  we have used a div tag in our html
there are other styles of container, many of them are there for
accesibility. back in the day everything was a div!  now we can 
use header so that it is easy to tell wtf is going on.

what is contained int the alt"" quotes is used to describe things to someone
using a screen reader.

Some elements are called inline elements, they appear in the same line.
span button and input are the most common of these!

block level elements will take u pthe whole page and be the only thing on that line
headers, list items, divs, p tags, images

div is great if you want to place something as a block
and span is great if you want to place something inline
You can change anything by resetting its property in CSS


the entire internet used to run on tables but we have moved to divs!
head establishes coloumns, and the body establishes rows!  There are a lot 
tags involved in tables.  Have fun using them LOL

In CSS there are two main things that are very important.

The first is selecting elements! and make sure that we are influencing
the thing that we want to influence! an element selector will get everything
with that thing.  Usually a broad page wide selector like
div{

}  
is ineffecient.  you should likely use the class attribute to change multiple
of the same selectors.  you would do that with a '.' in front of your name.

you could also use and id.  you should use an id only once per page.  That is 
great if you need to change only version of an element that appears several times
on the same page.  You would change an ID with a hash #.

YOU SHOULD USE IDs for JQUERY and classes for styles.

you can also select everything on the entire page if you use *.

There is hierarchy and weight to what shows up if an element selected 
in more than one way.  * is god!

compound selectors hit an element nested inside another one. 
see the link in our ol in the nav!

putting a comma between two selectors will effect both.  see our ol
and our footer!

Every element on the webpage follows the box model! you can view it in your
devtools using the source clicker.  

There is content, padding, border, and margin.  all boxes around other boxes.
check the img tag for a visualize. you can also changes the sizes of all of
them in real time using the dev tools!

you can also change the size of things with height and width.  You can use
a percentage value on your selector so that your css will be responsive.
Use max height or width so that it will respond up to a certain size. check
the person selector to see this in action!!!

display is describing block or inline elements!  you can then move them
around more easily.  Check flexbox froggy out!!
if you want to center things check out csstricks.com/centering-css-complete-guide/!
